>> Brian Holt: We are gonna
talk about linting.
Who is pumped about linting, get out.
[LAUGH] No, I'm just kidding.
[LAUGH] Just kidding.
I got mixed feelings about linting.
I've gone all over the map from unlinting.
If you watch complete intro to React V2,
there comes in this different Brian Holt
character that's just like we're gonna
lint the hell out of this project.
It's gonna look like one person wrote it
and I was very much on that train of like,
let's let the tools control you.
And I've come all the way
back the other way and
if you like watch React V7.
You get this hippie brand.
It's free love and no linting, right?
Where I'm just write
whatever code you feel dude.
Now I've come back more to
help me catch very common and
very easy to miss bugs and
otherwise leave me the hell alone.
This actually just kind of applies to
my general thought process on building
dev tools of your developer has
something in mind that they want
to express in the code.
And don't interrupt them unless
they're actually going to,
unless you're helping them, right?
Just getting someone to write code in a
certain format because you feel like it is
adding more and more friction and
it's more distance between someone
expressing their idea in code.
And so that's why I'm much more
careful these days to be very light
on the linting side and just if it's
not important, don't do it, right.
Okay, so we're gonna do prettier and
people frequently ask me
what's the difference
between linting and or
ESlint and prettier?
ESlint is linting obviously.
Linting is much more semantics and
syntax and
content focused where
you're saying things like.
You have to alphabetize
all of your imports,
which is one of my very least favorite
rules that you can enforce in ESLint.
But it's things like that,
it's things where you're
enforcing an opinion on someone it
could be totally valid code but
you're saying,
I don't want you to do this.
One of the ones that I do find useful
is don't use any globals, right?
Because usually that means that
you misspelled something, so
it's gonna reach for a global as opposed
to finding the one that you actually
intended to name it, right?
Prettier is just formatting.
It's just white space and new lines.
It does not enforce
anything about the code,
it's just making sure that all of the
white space ends up in the right place.
That's all that prettier does.
There's some overlap that you can
basically have ESlint do some of what
prettier does.
But if we're using both tools,
prettier is much better formatting.
Leave the formatting to prettier,
just have lint for all the linting rules.
Yeah, Marc?
>> Marc: Have you heard of Oxlint?
>> Brian Holt: I have.
I might even mention it down here,I do,
look at that.
I think this is actually
supposed to be a zero.
No, okay, no, I was right it is.
There's two projects to keep an eye on.
Here is oxlint and biome.
Biome used to be called Rome oxlint,
I think is, this is all written in rust.
And there's, I think,
a couple of other projects.
They're so new, and they both really
lean on ESLint anyway, for its rules.
So I'm interested,
I'm keeping an eye on it.
The creator of Vue and vite,
Evan Yu started a new company around
oxlint and vite and all these tools.
So I'm interested, but
they're still so new.
In this course, I'm trying to teach you
to be job ready today with React and
I'm not teaching you anything
that's that far out on the edge.
So look at it, admire it.
Help but if you're going to your day job,
ship, ESLint it's just the safe choice
right now, and
it's a perfectly good piece of software.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, yeah.
A good example here is you want
a force people to never use with.
If with is technically valid JavaScript,
it was an ES3, right?
But you never wanna have
with in a modern code base,
it would just make zero sense, right?
So you can have ESLint say,
hey, you're using with.
No one uses with, please stop doing that.
Okay, I'm gonna have you install ESLint
and these tools at specific versions.
>> Brian Holt: The reason why I'm
gonna have you do that now and for
the rest of the course is,
this course is a moment in time, and
they're definitely going to release
new changes and breaking changes.
And I want people to stay on tools
that I have verified work together.
So, feel free to try and install
later versions of ESLint or React or
whatever you want, but
just know when they release new minor or
major versions of these things,
it's probably gonna break, right?
There is a massive difference
between ESLint 8 and ESLint 9.
React V8 uses ESLint 8, and
I had to rewrite this entire portion of
the course because it totally changed,
right?
So, go ahead and grab this,
I will just copy and paste it directly,
>> Brian Holt: Go to your project, and
we're just gonna install -D,
right, for development.
eslint@9.9.1, eslint-config@9.1.0,
and globals@15.9.0.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, again,
you'll notice in our package.json,
we now have a bunch more devDependencies.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
>> Brian Holt: We're
gonna create a file in
the root of our project.
It's gonna be called
eslint.config.mjs
>> Brian Holt: Now every version of
this course previously used eslintrc.json,
that is no longer supported.
You actually have to do it this way now
and you might be asking, why is it mjs?
Because otherwise it assumes it is common
JS, and we want to use ES modules.
So the mjs here means that
we're gonna do import and
export as opposed to require, right?
So that's why.
>> Brian Holt: And
we are gonna start writing
a little ESLint config,
import js from @eslint/js,
import globals from globals and
import prettier from
eslint-config-prettier, all right?
This is one of my favorite tricks with
just VS Code and TypeScript in general.
This is not TypeScript, but I still love
completions when I'm writing code, right?
So you can say @type,
>> Brian Holt: import
>> Brian Holt: Eslint.
>> Brian Holt: .linter.config array.
Now, you can see the two
stars here in the slash.
This is a comment, right?
But this is letting VS Code
know this is this type.
Please give me all the type
completions for this.
So now I can say export default and
give it an array and
now I'm gonna have proper type
completions inside of this.
This is totally optional.
You can totally leave this off if
you're in something like sub yeah,
sublime or textmate.
I don't know why you're on textmate.
That... I have questions about that, but
you probably wouldn't use this.
This probably wouldn't be very helpful for
you, but for
VS code specifically,
this is really quite nice.
So now I can say js.configs and
I'm gonna give it .recommended.
So we're gonna export this
array of rules for eslint.
This is their new flat
configuration style.
I find it confusing.
[LAUGH] But
this is the way you have to do it now.
So we're stuck with it.
So you export multiple
different configurations, and
it kind of builds one
on time upon the other.
So this will be executed,
then the second one, then the third one,
then the fourth one.
So the lower it is in the list,
the last it is executed.
So one thing is this prettier
config always has to be last.
Just keep that in mind,
just drill it into your brain.
The prettier config always has to be last.
Why is that?
The prettier config,
all it does is turn off stuff.
It doesn't add anything new.
All it says is, don't check formatting.
Don't check this kind of formatting.
Don't check new lines,
don't check any of that kinda stuff.
All this does is turn off formatting,
which is useful.
Otherwise you get,
eslint yelling at you that's like, hey,
you didn't format this correctly and this
will prevent it from yelling at you for
stuff that doesn't matter.
Okay, we're gonna put our
configuration here in the middle, so
js.configs.recommended.
This is just a very small subset of
non-controversial ESLint rules, right?
They're just purely value-add.
I've never had a problem
with the recommended one.
If you want everything that ESLint
can check for, you can do .all, but
you are a glutton for
punishment if you're doing that,
it's going to check things that
you don't care about, I promise.
So you know what?
Again, I'm not your mom
do whatever you want, but
I'm not going to put that in there
because it annoys me so quickly.
Okay, we're gonna tell what files so
that, okay?
Again, this type thing right here,
the reason why it knows here,
this files is from that comment up there,
right?
Which I find extremely useful.
Okay, and I'm gonna tell it to check for
everything to do with .js files.
And if you want to get ahead of the game
here, we're eventually going to be doing
JSX so you might as well just
check that in there as well.
If you're doing TS and
TSX you put that in here as well, right?
So, okay, language options.
>> Brian Holt: We are gonna
say here's the globals
that we want you to check or
be aware of where do globals.browser and
globals.node.
Why this?
It's so that when we go into like here,
we can say things like window or
document, things that are globals
in those environments.
If you don't import and add those,
it's going to be like, hey,
I don't know what document is, right?
So that's what globals is.
Sorry, back in here.
This is just the spread operator, right?
So we could do some sort of like
Object.assign here, right?
But we can just use the spread operator.
This is a little bit cleaner.
This is just going to be the union
of browser and node here, right?
As one object.
That's all the globals that we need for
this project, parser options.
>> Brian Holt: ECMA features,and we need
JSX,
>> Brian Holt: And
I think that should be good for
us for a little bit.
>> Brian Holt: This is just
going to allow us to use JSX,
which we're about to do, right?
Without this, ESLint is still gonna
be okay cuz it can parse jsx,
but it's not going to understand
how React is working and
how it's importing things, correctly.
So this becomes important.
>> Brian Holt: All right.
>> Brian Holt: So again, let's go back
into our package.json and make it so
that this can run eslint.
We're gonna say lint and
now we can just say eslint.
You used to have to put this long
string associated with it but
now it reads Config properly and
you don't have to do that.
>> Brian Holt: So now if we come
in here and we say npm run lint,
you'll see a bunch of these errors, right.
>> Brian Holt: And my notes here say that,
this should fix it if you say ESPN or
ESPN, wow.
Yeah, something on the mind, I guess.
Run lint -- --fix.
So this -- just means, hey,
I want to pass this into eslint.
So this will actually end
up running eslint --fix.
If you don't put this -- in there,
it's going to apply --fix to npm.
Which doesn't make any sense right?
So that's why you need the --.
Yeah I didn't think so.
So, [COUGH] what's something
that I could fix automatically?
I don't remember.
Some of your linting errors
can be fixed automatically,
it contains transformations that will
just fix some of these things for you.
We have nothing to fix right now, so
that doesn't really help us that much,
but that's kind of a fun
trick to do sometimes,
another one if you're debugging
this is debug is super useful.
You get a lot of output of like eslint for
working.
It's telling you everything
that it's parsing,
it's telling you all
the errors that it's found.
It's telling you all
the rules that it's loading.
So you can see these are all of the checks
that it's running, which is Kind of cool.
Yeah so, here's a good one, no debugger.
Let's say, I don't know if
you've ever used this before.
VS code has a very useful
debugger built into it.
We won't be using it today, but
like I use it quite a bit for
my node projects and.
So now I think if I say npm run lint,
it should give me an error
around not using the debugger.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
unexpected debugger statement.
It'll catch things like that.
You want this to error, right?
Because I'm gonna put this in there, and I
want this to stay here while I'm using it
but I don't ever want to ship
this to production, right?
So that's something that
lint will catch for you.
Yeah, let's install the extension.
There is an ESLint extension,
I will say that of the common extensions I
recommend people install this
one is the most finicky.
Sometimes the ESLint one
should look like this.
It's official from Microsoft, it just
gets bent out of shape sometimes and
so if you find that it's not or it's
highlighting something that it should or
not highlighting something that it should.
A good restart will usually fix a lot
of stuff either of VS Code itself or
the whole computer, I don't know.
Definitely one of the ones
that annoys me the most and
sometimes I just end up disabling
it because it's so annoying.
The purpose of the npm script
you wrote is only if somebody
doesn't have prettier installed
in their editor, correct?
It's amongst the reasons that I would do
it, the probably the chief reason, is so
that I can now run it in CICD, right?
So I can run it as like a GitHub action,
so then it won't check in my or
it won't deploy my code, if it's like
failing lint or failing prettier.
That's probably the biggest reason,
because almost everyone that I work with
or have worked with,
has some version of Prettier or
Lint built into their editor and
they just fix it on the fly.
And there's a few holdouts that'll just
run it right before they commit, right?
So those are the two
chief reasons I do it.